README.md, before:

# 🚀 Warpio for Claude Code

<div align="center">

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/iowarp/claude-code-4-science)
[![Claude Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude%20Code-Compatible-purple.svg)](https://claude.ai/code)
[![IOWarp](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-IOWarp.ai-orange.svg)](https://iowarp.ai)

**Transform Claude Code into a Scientific Computing Orchestrator**

[Quick Start](#-quick-start) • [Features](#-features) • [Architecture](#-architecture) • [Documentation](#-documentation) • [Contributing](#-contributing)

</div>

---

## 🌟 What is Warpio?

Warpio is a powerful transformation layer that enhances Claude Code with scientific computing superpowers. It orchestrates an "army" of specialized AI experts, scientific tools, and HPC capabilities to tackle complex computational challenges with minimal user intervention.

### 🎯 Key Differentiators

| Claude Code | Warpio |
|------------|--------|
| General software development | **Scientific computing focus** |
| Single agent | **Multi-expert orchestration** |
| Standard file operations | **HDF5, NetCDF, ADIOS, Zarr expertise** |
| Basic Python/JavaScript | **MPI, OpenMP, CUDA optimization** |
| Simple scripts | **SLURM job orchestration** |
| Sequential processing | **Parallel expert execution** |

## ⚡ Quick Start

### One-Click Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/iowarp/claude-code-4-science
cd claude-code-4-science

# Install to your project (one-click mode)
./install-warpio.sh /path/to/your/project

# Or use interactive mode for customization
./install-warpio.sh --interactive /path/to/your/project
```

### Start Using Warpio

```bash
# Option 1: Use the warpio alias
warpio

# Option 2: Navigate and launch
cd /path/to/your/project
claude
```

## 🔬 Features

### 👥 Expert Personas

Warpio orchestrates specialized AI experts that work together:

- **🗄️ Data Expert**: HDF5, NetCDF, Zarr optimization, parallel I/O
- **🖥️ HPC Expert**: MPI programming, SLURM scripts, performance tuning
- **📊 Analysis Expert**: Statistical computing, visualization, ML
- **📚 Research Expert**: Papers, citations, reproducibility
- **⚙️ Workflow Expert**: Pipeline orchestration, automation

### 🛠️ Scientific MCP Tools

14+ specialized Model Context Protocol tools:

**Data Formats:**
- `hdf5-mcp` - Hierarchical data operations
- `netcdf-mcp` - Climate data handling
- `adios-mcp` - Streaming I/O for simulations
- `zarr-mcp` - Cloud-optimized arrays
- `parquet-mcp` - Columnar analytics

**HPC Tools:**
- `slurm-mcp` - Job scheduling
- `mpi-mcp` - Message passing
- `darshan-mcp` - I/O profiling

**Computing:**
- `numpy-mcp` - Numerical operations
- `pandas-mcp` - Data manipulation
- `scipy-mcp` - Scientific algorithms

**Utilities:**
- `arxiv-mcp` - Paper retrieval
- `git-mcp` - Version control
- `filesystem-mcp` - Advanced file ops

### 🤖 AI Orchestration

- **Local AI Integration**: LM Studio, Ollama support
- **Multi-Model Routing**: Intelligent task delegation
- **Parallel Execution**: Multiple experts working simultaneously
- **Result Aggregation**: Unified responses from expert collaboration

### 🎨 Orchestration Modes

1. **Parallel Mode**: Independent experts run simultaneously
2. **Sequential Mode**: Chained execution for dependent tasks
3. **Auto Mode**: Warpio decides based on task requirements

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    User Query                        │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
        ┌────────────▼────────────┐
        │   Warpio Main Agent     │
        │  (Intent Detection)     │
        └────────────┬────────────┘
                     │
     ┌───────────────┼───────────────┐
     │               │               │
┌────▼────┐    ┌────▼────┐    ┌────▼────┐
│  Data   │    │  HPC    │    │Analysis │
│ Expert  │    │ Expert  │    │ Expert  │
└────┬────┘    └────┬────┘    └────┬────┘
     │               │               │
     └───────────────┼───────────────┘
                     │
        ┌────────────▼────────────┐
        │   Result Aggregation    │
        └────────────┬────────────┘
                     │
        ┌────────────▼────────────┐
        │    Unified Response     │
        └─────────────────────────┘
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
claude-code-4-science/
├── .warpio/                    # Core Warpio configuration
│   ├── WARPIO.md              # Main identity prompt
│   ├── agents/                # Expert personas
│   │   ├── data-expert.md
│   │   ├── hpc-expert.md
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── commands/              # Custom slash commands
│   ├── hooks/                 # Event hooks
│   ├── mcp-configs/           # MCP configurations
│   └── scripts/               # Utility scripts
├── install-warpio.sh          # Main installer
├── TEST-WARPIO.md            # Comprehensive test suite
└── README.md                 # This file
```

## 🎮 Interactive Installation

The installer supports two modes:

### Default Mode (One-Click)
- Installs all 5 expert personas
- Configures core MCPs
- Auto-detects local AI
- Sets up parallel orchestration

### Interactive Mode (`--interactive`)
- Choose specific experts
- Select individual MCPs
- Configure orchestration mode
- Customize local AI settings

```bash
./install-warpio.sh --interactive /your/project
```

## 🧪 Testing Your Installation

### Quick Validation

```bash
cd /your/project
./validate-warpio.sh
```

### Test Commands

```bash
# Identity test
You: Who are you?

# Expert activation
You: I need to optimize an HDF5 file

# Multi-expert orchestration
You: Analyze my simulation data and create publication figures

# Local AI delegation
You: Use zen to analyze this code
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env)

```bash
# AI Configuration
LOCAL_AI_PROVIDER=lmstudio
LMSTUDIO_API_URL=http://localhost:1234/v1
LMSTUDIO_MODEL=qwen3-4b-instruct

# Orchestration
ORCHESTRATION_MODE=parallel

# Warpio Settings
WARPIO_VERSION=1.0.0
WARPIO_DOMAIN=iowarp.ai
```

### Expert Activation Keywords

| Expert | Trigger Keywords |
|--------|-----------------|
| Data | HDF5, NetCDF, Zarr, data format, I/O |
| HPC | MPI, SLURM, parallel, cluster |
| Analysis | plot, statistics, visualize |
| Research | paper, citation, reproducible |
| Workflow | pipeline, automation, orchestrate |

## 📚 Documentation

### Guides
- [Quick Start Guide](WARPIO-QUICKSTART.md)
- [Testing Guide](TEST-WARPIO.md)
- [MCP Documentation](https://iowarp.github.io/iowarp-mcps)

### Examples

#### Optimize HDF5 File
```
You: I have a large HDF5 file that's slow to read
Warpio: [Activates data-expert, analyzes structure, optimizes chunking]
```

#### Create SLURM Script
```
You: Generate a SLURM script for my MPI application
Warpio: [Activates hpc-expert, creates optimized job script]
```

#### Multi-Expert Collaboration
```
You: Analyze climate data and prepare publication figures
Warpio: [Orchestrates data-expert + analysis-expert in parallel]
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Adding New Experts
1. Create expert definition in `.warpio/agents/`
2. Define MCP tools in `mcp-configs/`
3. Add activation keywords to WARPIO.md
4. Test with validation suite

### Adding New MCPs
1. Implement MCP following protocol
2. Add to installer configuration
3. Document in README
4. Submit PR with examples

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Claude CLI not found | Install with `npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-cli` |
| MCPs not loading | Run `.claude/scripts/install-mcps.sh` |
| Local AI not detected | Check LM Studio/Ollama is running |
| Experts not activating | Verify keywords in query |

### Debug Commands

```bash
# Check installation
./validate-warpio.sh

# View configuration
cat .env
cat .claude/mcp-configs/warpio-mcps.json

# Test specific expert
claude
> I need help with HDF5 files  # Should activate data-expert
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for Claude and Claude Code
- [IOWarp.ai](https://iowarp.ai) for scientific computing expertise
- The open-source scientific computing community

## 🔗 Links

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/iowarp/claude-code-4-science)
- [IOWarp Website](https://iowarp.ai)
- [IOWarp MCPs Documentation](https://iowarp.github.io/iowarp-mcps)
- [Claude Code Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude-code)

---

<div align="center">

**🔬 Warpio - Orchestrating Scientific Computing Excellence**

*Powered by IOWarp.ai | Transforming Science Through Intelligent Computing*

</div>

Commit message:

polish: Refine Warpio installation and enhance robustness
Major improvements to the Warpio scientific computing orchestrator:

Installation Enhancements:
- Fix dynamic path resolution for portable installations
- Improve one-click installer with proper folder creation flow
- Move validation script to .warpio/scripts for maintainability
- Ensure all scripts work correctly from target directory context

Philosophy & Messaging:
- Clarify enhancement approach (augments rather than replaces)
- Add action-first behavioral directives
- Implement silent expert activation for seamless UX
- Update identity responses to emphasize enhancement

Error Handling & Robustness:
- Add graceful error handling to all hook scripts
- Implement proper path discovery for project root
- Add fallback directories for logs and metrics
- Ensure Python hooks have proper shebangs

Documentation Updates:
- Update README to emphasize enhancement philosophy
- Create comprehensive validation script
- Add detailed quick start guide generation
- Improve installation messaging and user guidance

Technical Fixes:
- Fix MCP wrapper to work from any project directory
- Correct environment variable loading in scripts
- Add proper executable permissions handling
- Ensure consistent path normalization

This release provides a polished, production-ready installation experience
for scientific computing workflows with HPC, data I/O, and AI orchestration.

🔬 Powered by IOWarp.ai | Enhancing Science Through Intelligent Computing

README.md, after:

# 🚀 Warpio for Claude Code

<div align="center">

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-green.svg)](https://github.com/iowarp/claude-code-4-science)
[![Claude Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude%20Code-Compatible-purple.svg)](https://claude.ai/code)
[![IOWarp](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-IOWarp.ai-orange.svg)](https://iowarp.ai)

**Enhance Claude Code with Scientific Computing Superpowers**

[Quick Start](#-quick-start) • [Features](#-features) • [Architecture](#-architecture) • [Documentation](#-documentation) • [Contributing](#-contributing)

</div>

---

## 🌟 What is Warpio?

Warpio is a powerful enhancement layer that adds scientific computing superpowers to Claude Code. You get the same Claude Code you know and love, now with the ability to orchestrate specialized AI experts, scientific tools, and HPC capabilities to tackle complex computational challenges.

### 🎯 Enhancement Philosophy

Warpio **enhances** Claude Code rather than replacing it. Think of it as Claude Code with scientific superpowers:

| Claude Code | Claude Code + Warpio |
|------------|---------------------|
| General software development | **Enhanced with scientific computing** |
| Single agent capabilities | **Multi-expert orchestration** |
| Standard file operations | **HDF5, NetCDF, ADIOS, Zarr expertise** |
| Basic Python/JavaScript | **MPI, OpenMP, CUDA optimization** |
| Simple scripts | **SLURM job orchestration** |
| Sequential processing | **Parallel expert execution** |

### What Stays the Same
- All your familiar Claude Code capabilities
- Same interface and user experience  
- All standard tools and features
- Your existing workflows

### What Gets Enhanced
- **Scientific Domain Knowledge**: Deep expertise in HPC, data formats, research workflows
- **Multi-Expert Orchestration**: Parallel AI agents working together on complex tasks
- **Specialized Tools**: 14+ MCPs for scientific computing (HDF5, SLURM, MPI, etc.)
- **Local AI Integration**: Privacy-preserving delegation to your local models
- **Intelligent Task Detection**: Automatic activation of relevant expertise

## ⚡ Quick Start

### One-Click Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/iowarp/claude-code-4-science
cd claude-code-4-science

# Install to your project (one-click mode)
./install-warpio.sh /path/to/your/project

# Or use interactive mode for customization
./install-warpio.sh --interactive /path/to/your/project
```

### Start Using Warpio

```bash
# Option 1: Use the warpio alias
warpio

# Option 2: Navigate and launch
cd /path/to/your/project
claude
```

## 🔬 Features

### 👥 Expert Personas

Warpio enhances Claude Code with specialized AI experts that work together:

- **🗄️ Data Expert**: HDF5, NetCDF, Zarr optimization, parallel I/O
- **🖥️ HPC Expert**: MPI programming, SLURM scripts, performance tuning
- **📊 Analysis Expert**: Statistical computing, visualization, ML
- **📚 Research Expert**: Papers, citations, reproducibility
- **⚙️ Workflow Expert**: Pipeline orchestration, automation

### 🛠️ Scientific MCP Tools

14+ specialized Model Context Protocol tools:

**Data Formats:**
- `hdf5-mcp` - Hierarchical data operations
- `netcdf-mcp` - Climate data handling
- `adios-mcp` - Streaming I/O for simulations
- `zarr-mcp` - Cloud-optimized arrays
- `parquet-mcp` - Columnar analytics

**HPC Tools:**
- `slurm-mcp` - Job scheduling
- `mpi-mcp` - Message passing
- `darshan-mcp` - I/O profiling

**Computing:**
- `numpy-mcp` - Numerical operations
- `pandas-mcp` - Data manipulation
- `scipy-mcp` - Scientific algorithms

**Utilities:**
- `arxiv-mcp` - Paper retrieval
- `git-mcp` - Version control
- `filesystem-mcp` - Advanced file ops

### 🤖 AI Orchestration

- **Local AI Integration**: LM Studio, Ollama support
- **Multi-Model Routing**: Intelligent task delegation
- **Parallel Execution**: Multiple experts working simultaneously
- **Result Aggregation**: Unified responses from expert collaboration

### 🎨 Orchestration Modes

1. **Parallel Mode**: Independent experts run simultaneously
2. **Sequential Mode**: Chained execution for dependent tasks
3. **Auto Mode**: Warpio decides based on task requirements

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    User Query                        │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
        ┌────────────▼────────────┐
        │   Warpio Main Agent     │
        │  (Intent Detection)     │
        └────────────┬────────────┘
                     │
     ┌───────────────┼───────────────┐
     │               │               │
┌────▼────┐    ┌────▼────┐    ┌────▼────┐
│  Data   │    │  HPC    │    │Analysis │
│ Expert  │    │ Expert  │    │ Expert  │
└────┬────┘    └────┬────┘    └────┬────┘
     │               │               │
     └───────────────┼───────────────┘
                     │
        ┌────────────▼────────────┐
        │   Result Aggregation    │
        └────────────┬────────────┘
                     │
        ┌────────────▼────────────┐
        │    Unified Response     │
        └─────────────────────────┘
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
claude-code-4-science/
├── .warpio/                    # Core Warpio configuration
│   ├── WARPIO.md              # Main identity prompt
│   ├── agents/                # Expert personas
│   │   ├── data-expert.md
│   │   ├── hpc-expert.md
│   │   └── ...
│   ├── commands/              # Custom slash commands
│   ├── hooks/                 # Event hooks
│   ├── mcp-configs/           # MCP configurations
│   └── scripts/               # Utility scripts
├── install-warpio.sh          # Main installer
├── TEST-WARPIO.md            # Comprehensive test suite
└── README.md                 # This file
```

## 🎮 Interactive Installation

The installer supports two modes:

### Default Mode (One-Click)
- Installs all 5 expert personas
- Configures core MCPs
- Auto-detects local AI
- Sets up parallel orchestration

### Interactive Mode (`--interactive`)
- Choose specific experts
- Select individual MCPs
- Configure orchestration mode
- Customize local AI settings

```bash
./install-warpio.sh --interactive /your/project
```

## 🧪 Testing Your Installation

### Quick Validation

```bash
cd /your/project
./validate-warpio.sh
```

### Test Commands

```bash
# Identity test
You: Who are you?

# Expert activation
You: I need to optimize an HDF5 file

# Multi-expert orchestration
You: Analyze my simulation data and create publication figures

# Local AI delegation
You: Use zen to analyze this code
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env)

```bash
# AI Configuration
LOCAL_AI_PROVIDER=lmstudio
LMSTUDIO_API_URL=http://localhost:1234/v1
LMSTUDIO_MODEL=qwen3-4b-instruct

# Orchestration
ORCHESTRATION_MODE=parallel

# Warpio Settings
WARPIO_VERSION=1.0.0
WARPIO_DOMAIN=iowarp.ai
```

### Expert Activation Keywords

| Expert | Trigger Keywords |
|--------|-----------------|
| Data | HDF5, NetCDF, Zarr, data format, I/O |
| HPC | MPI, SLURM, parallel, cluster |
| Analysis | plot, statistics, visualize |
| Research | paper, citation, reproducible |
| Workflow | pipeline, automation, orchestrate |

## 📚 Documentation

### Guides
- [Quick Start Guide](WARPIO-QUICKSTART.md)
- [Testing Guide](TEST-WARPIO.md)
- [MCP Documentation](https://iowarp.github.io/iowarp-mcps)

### Examples

#### Optimize HDF5 File
```
You: I have a large HDF5 file that's slow to read
Warpio: [Activates data-expert, analyzes structure, optimizes chunking]
```

#### Create SLURM Script
```
You: Generate a SLURM script for my MPI application
Warpio: [Activates hpc-expert, creates optimized job script]
```

#### Multi-Expert Collaboration
```
You: Analyze climate data and prepare publication figures
Warpio: [Orchestrates data-expert + analysis-expert in parallel]
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Adding New Experts
1. Create expert definition in `.warpio/agents/`
2. Define MCP tools in `mcp-configs/`
3. Add activation keywords to WARPIO.md
4. Test with validation suite

### Adding New MCPs
1. Implement MCP following protocol
2. Add to installer configuration
3. Document in README
4. Submit PR with examples

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

| Issue | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Claude CLI not found | Install with `npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-cli` |
| MCPs not loading | Run `.claude/scripts/install-mcps.sh` |
| Local AI not detected | Check LM Studio/Ollama is running |
| Experts not activating | Verify keywords in query |

### Debug Commands

```bash
# Check installation
./validate-warpio.sh

# View configuration
cat .env
cat .claude/mcp-configs/warpio-mcps.json

# Test specific expert
claude
> I need help with HDF5 files  # Should activate data-expert
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for Claude and Claude Code
- [IOWarp.ai](https://iowarp.ai) for scientific computing expertise
- The open-source scientific computing community

## 🔗 Links

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/iowarp/claude-code-4-science)
- [IOWarp Website](https://iowarp.ai)
- [IOWarp MCPs Documentation](https://iowarp.github.io/iowarp-mcps)
- [Claude Code Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/claude-code)

---

<div align="center">

**🔬 Warpio - Orchestrating Scientific Computing Excellence**

*Powered by IOWarp.ai | Transforming Science Through Intelligent Computing*

</div>
